.H 2 "Setting trace and break points"
.P
The 'run', 'step', 'cont' and 'after' commands (see 1.6.2) provide a way to follow
the execution of a DAS program.
They report all events and exceptions (the 'step' and 'cont' command),
only the last event or exception (the'after' command) or nothing at all
(the 'run' command).
.P
When you want to know whether a particular subprogram has ever been called or where
an uncaught exception was raised you must step through the program or
estimate after how many events the subprogram call or exception occurs.
Stepping through the program is a very slow process and by using the after
command you could even miss the subprogram call.
.P
The 'trace' and 'break' commands allow you to explicitly name the event or
exception in a particular subprogram or package.
When you enter trace or break mode by the corresponding commands
(see figure 2) there are three commands available to specify the
events and exceptions you are interested in.
The three commands are :
.AL
.LI
.B calls
.br
will set trace or breakpoints at the entry
.ul 1
and
exit of a subprogram body or the start
.ul 1
and
end of the elaboration of a package body.
Whether a subprogram or package body is ment is implicitly
given by the body name entered.
.LI
.B lines
.br
will set trace or break points after the execution of statements.
After the statement
is executed the source line containing the executed statement
is displayed in the output region together with the name of
the subprogram or package executing the statement.
.LI
.B exceptions
.br
if any exception in the named body is raised this will be reported in the
output region.
.LE
.sp 1
The events or exceptions set in trace or break mode are displayed
in the output region (see 1.6.2) when they occur during execution of the DAS program.
When an event or exception is executed on which a break point was set
the debugger will get back in control with the state of the program
indicating a
.B break .
.P
The executed events are not reported in the output region
when the DAS program is (re)started or continued by the 'after' command
(see 1.6.2).
.H 3 "Subprogram and package names"
.P
Each of the three commands ('calls', 'lines' and 'exceptions') in 1.7 will
prompt for a subprogram or package name.
The notation used to name specific subprogram and packages is the
selected component notation.
This notation is also used when an event or execption is executed and
reported in the output region by the 'step', 'after' and 'cont'
commands (see 1.6.2).
.P
When you want to refer to procedure test in example 2 you type 'example_2.test'.
Typing 'example_2.another' would refer to package 'another'.
.P
During execution of the DAS program it is determined whether it
is a call of a subprogram or the elaboration of a package.
.DF
EXAMPLE 2 :
.sp 2
.in +7
PACKAGE BODY example_2 IS

	PROCEDURE test IS
	BEGIN
		-- statements of procedure test;
	END test;

	PACKAGE another IS
		-- objects of package another;
	END another;

	PACKAGE BODY another IS
	BEGIN
		-- statements of package body another;
	END another;

BEGIN
	-- statements of package body example_2;
END example_2;
.in -7
.DE
.P
In example 2 there are few subprograms and packages and you can easily name them
all.
In real life most DAS programs are probably more complicated and it would take
some time to name all the subprograms and packages you are interested in.
.P
To make it unnecessary to name all subprograms and packages it is sufficient to name
only the subprogram
or package in whose declarative part the bodies are declared followed by ".*".
Instead of entering 'example_2.test' and 'example_2.another' it would
have been enough to enter only 'example-2.*' ,
thereby implicitly naming procedure 'test', package 'another' and 'example_2'.
.P
If procedure 'example_2.test' or package 'example_2.another' have other
subprograms or packages in their declarative parts these subprograms and
packages will also get trace or break points.
.H 3 "Special characters"
.P
There are four special characters that when used as the first or only
component in a selected component notation
expand to a library unit, subprogram or package name.
The four are :
.DL
.LI
!
.br
the exclaim character expands to the library unit name displayed in the status region after the word
.B use .
.br
Initialy this library unit is the subprogram the debugger is invoked with.
The
.B use
command can be given to change this library unit to any other unit
belonging to
the DAS program library.
.LI
#
.br
the immediate character expands to the name of the library unit that was executing when the program
was stopped.
.LI
$
.br
the dollar character expands to the subprogram or package that was executing when the program was stopped.
The selected component name after
.B in
on the status region is the executing subprogram or package.
.LI
*
.br
Using the '*' will set trace or breakpoints at all the subprograms and packages
in the program.
.LE
.H 3 "Changing trace and break points"
.P
The previous section describes the setting of trace and break points,
this section will explain the changing and deletion of trace and break points.
.P
Previously set trace or breakpoints are changed by either deleting them or
setting trace points where breakpoints were set or vice versa.
Deleting trace or breakpoints is done in the delete mode.
The delete mode is entered by the
.B delete
command which is available in every mode.
.P
The commands available in the delete mode are the same as those in trace or
break mode.
Using these commands is therefore exactly the same as using them in
the trace or break mode.
The effect of the commands is to delete previously set trace or break points
for the event or exception.
