.H 2 "Examining the DAS program"
.P
Entering the print mode by the
.B print
command will give you some commands to examine the DAS program.
The 'print' command is only available in run mode.
.P
The following four commands allow you to list active subprograms and packages,
a history of the 15 most recent subprogram calls and package elaborations,
a list of all subprogram calls and package elaborations and the context of
an executed statement.
.AL
.LI
.B stack
.br
the 'stack' command lists the active subprograms and packages.
The names in the listing are given in the selected component notation (see
also 1.6.2 and 1.7).
Whether the names in the listing are those of subprograms or packages is not
shown.
.sp
As this is a listing of active subprograms and packages the status of the
DAS program will be important because a program in the state 'terminated'
will have no more active subprograms and packages.
.sp
In the states 'terminated', 'fetched' and 'aborted' it is possible to
give the 'stack' command but there will be no more active subprograms or
packages.
.sp
In the states 'interrupted', 'break' and 'killed' it will be possible
to list the active subprograms and packages.
.sp
To give you time to examine the listing, after each 18 or 16 names (depending
on the size of the output region) the word more is displayed in reverse video
in the lower left corner of your screen.
By typing the character 'q' you terminate the listing, any other character will
continue the listing.
.LI
.B last
.br
The 'stack' command is not always able to list active subprograms
and packages.
It will therefor sometimes
be difficult to determine where the DAS program went wrong.
.sp
The 'last' command allows you to look at the last 15 subprogram calls or
package elaborations before the program was stopped.
This will give you a chance to look at what the DAS program was doing just before
it stopped.
.sp
Be aware that the 'last' command shows only the last calls and elaborations
so all these subprograms or packages need not be active.
.sp
The most recent called subprogram or package elaboration is listed first,
the subprogram or package before that listed second, and so on.
.LI
.B all
.br
the 'last' command allowed you to examine the most recent history
of the program.
.br
The 'all' command will list
those subprograms and packages that have ever been called
or elaborated during execution.
.br
The number of times the subprogram has been called or the package has been
elaborated is given after the name.
.sp 
Example:
.in +20
.DS
EXAMPLE_2-> 1
EXAMPLE_2.ANOTHER-> 1
.DE
.in -20
.sp
would mean that the packages 'example_2' and 'another' were elaborated
once while procedure 'test' has never been called.
.sp
If the DAS program is in the state 'interrupted' or 'break'
the 'all' command shows the called subprograms or elaborated packages
up
to that moment.
In any other state the called subprograms and elaborated packages of the
last time the program was executed are shown.
.LI
.B context
.br
the 'step' command executes one event and displays this event (see 1.6.2).
If the event is the execution of a statement the source line containing the
statement is displayed.
.sp
The 'context' command will print the context of this executed statement
in exactly the same way the 'cont' command prints it (see 1.6.3).
Be aware that the 'context' command does not
execute the DAS program but only prints the context of the executed statement.
.LE
.H 2 "Clearing the output region"
Commands which produce output in the output region will usually continue 
after the previous output.Some commands however will clear the  output region
before producing output,e.g. the 
.B run
command.
.br
In all modes the output region can be cleared manually by typing '^l'.
.H 2 "Exiting the debugger"
.P
To exit the symbolic debugger and returning to the command shell
is possible in all modes by typing ^d (control d).
.P
In the modes 'main', 'run' and 'print' the command
.B exit
is available.
The 'exit' command also returns to the command shell.
